README.md, before:

# Tabby Web

## Note on project status

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> At this time I don't have the time to work on `tabby-web` and won't be able to provide help or support for it. I'm still happy to merge any fixes/improvement PRs. :v:


![](docs/screenshot.png)

This is the Tabby terminal, served as a web app. It also provides the config sync service for the Tabby app.

# How it works

Tabby Web serves the [Tabby Terminal](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby) as a web application while managing multiple config files, authentication, and providing TCP connections via a [separate gateway service](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway).

# Requirements

* Python 3.7+
* A database server supported by Django (MariaDB, Postgres, SQLite, etc.)
* Storage for distribution files - local, S3, GCS or others supported by `fsspec`

# Quickstart (using `docker-compose`)

You'll need:

* OAuth credentials from GitHub, GitLab, Google or Microsoft for authentication.
* For SSH and Telnet: a [`tabby-connection-gateway`](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway) to forward traffic.
* Docker BuildKit: `export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1`

```bash
    docker-compose up -e SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY=xxx -e SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET=yyy
```

will start Tabby Web on port 9090 with MariaDB as a storage backend.

For SSH and Telnet, once logged in, enter your connection gateway address and auth token in the settings.

## Environment variables

* `DATABASE_URL` (required).
* `APP_DIST_STORAGE`: a `file://`, `s3://`, or `gcs://` URL to store app distros in.
* `SOCIAL_AUTH_*_KEY` & `SOCIAL_AUTH_*_SECRET`: social login credentials, supported providers are `GITHUB`, `GITLAB`, `MICROSOFT_GRAPH` and `GOOGLE_OAUTH2`.

## Adding Tabby app versions

* `docker-compose run tabby /manage.sh add_version 1.0.163`

You can find the available version numbers [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tabby-web-container).

# Development setup

Put your environment vars (`DATABASE_URL`, etc.) in the `.env` file in the root of the repo.

For the frontend:

```shell
cd frontend
yarn
yarn run build # or yarn run watch
```

For the backend:

```shell
cd backend
poetry install
./manage.py migrate # set up the database
./manage.py add_version 1.0.156-nightly.2 # install an app distribution
PORT=9000 poetry run gunicorn # optionally with --reload
```

# Security

* When using Tabby Web for SSH/Telnet connectivity, your traffic will pass through a hosted gateway service. It's encrypted in transit (HTTPS) and the gateway servers authenticate themselves with a certificate before connections are made. However there's a non-zero risk of a MITM if a gateway service is compromised and the attacker gains access to the service's private key.
* You can alleviate this risk by [hosting your own gateway service](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway), or your own copy of Tabby Web altogether.

Commit message:

feat: add Azure AD single-tenant authentication support
Add support for AzureADTenantOAuth2 backend which allows restricting
authentication to a specific Azure AD tenant (organization).

Configuration:
- SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_KEY: Azure app client ID
- SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_SECRET: Azure app client secret
- SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_TENANT_ID: Azure AD Directory ID

This enables organizations to restrict Tabby Web access to only users
from their Azure AD tenant, preventing personal Microsoft accounts or
users from other organizations from logging in.

Fixes #120

README.md, after:

# Tabby Web

## Note on project status

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> At this time I don't have the time to work on `tabby-web` and won't be able to provide help or support for it. I'm still happy to merge any fixes/improvement PRs. :v:


![](docs/screenshot.png)

This is the Tabby terminal, served as a web app. It also provides the config sync service for the Tabby app.

# How it works

Tabby Web serves the [Tabby Terminal](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby) as a web application while managing multiple config files, authentication, and providing TCP connections via a [separate gateway service](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway).

# Requirements

* Python 3.7+
* A database server supported by Django (MariaDB, Postgres, SQLite, etc.)
* Storage for distribution files - local, S3, GCS or others supported by `fsspec`

# Quickstart (using `docker-compose`)

You'll need:

* OAuth credentials from GitHub, GitLab, Google or Microsoft for authentication.
* For SSH and Telnet: a [`tabby-connection-gateway`](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway) to forward traffic.
* Docker BuildKit: `export DOCKER_BUILDKIT=1`

```bash
    docker-compose up -e SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY=xxx -e SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET=yyy
```

will start Tabby Web on port 9090 with MariaDB as a storage backend.

For SSH and Telnet, once logged in, enter your connection gateway address and auth token in the settings.

## Environment variables

* `DATABASE_URL` (required).
* `APP_DIST_STORAGE`: a `file://`, `s3://`, or `gcs://` URL to store app distros in.

### OAuth Providers

Configure one or more OAuth providers for authentication:

| Provider | Variables |
|----------|-----------|
| GitHub | `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_KEY`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITHUB_SECRET` |
| GitLab | `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITLAB_KEY`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_GITLAB_SECRET` |
| Google | `SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_KEY`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_SECRET` |
| Microsoft (multi-tenant) | `SOCIAL_AUTH_MICROSOFT_GRAPH_KEY`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_MICROSOFT_GRAPH_SECRET` |
| Azure AD (single-tenant) | `SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_KEY`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_SECRET`, `SOCIAL_AUTH_AZUREAD_TENANT_OAUTH2_TENANT_ID` |

**Azure AD Single-Tenant:** Use this instead of Microsoft Graph if you want to restrict login to users from a specific Azure AD tenant (organization). Set `TENANT_ID` to your Azure AD Directory (tenant) ID.

## Adding Tabby app versions

* `docker-compose run tabby /manage.sh add_version 1.0.163`

You can find the available version numbers [here](https://www.npmjs.com/package/tabby-web-container).

# Development setup

Put your environment vars (`DATABASE_URL`, etc.) in the `.env` file in the root of the repo.

For the frontend:

```shell
cd frontend
yarn
yarn run build # or yarn run watch
```

For the backend:

```shell
cd backend
poetry install
./manage.py migrate # set up the database
./manage.py add_version 1.0.156-nightly.2 # install an app distribution
PORT=9000 poetry run gunicorn # optionally with --reload
```

# Security

* When using Tabby Web for SSH/Telnet connectivity, your traffic will pass through a hosted gateway service. It's encrypted in transit (HTTPS) and the gateway servers authenticate themselves with a certificate before connections are made. However there's a non-zero risk of a MITM if a gateway service is compromised and the attacker gains access to the service's private key.
* You can alleviate this risk by [hosting your own gateway service](https://github.com/Eugeny/tabby-connection-gateway), or your own copy of Tabby Web altogether.
